README.md, before:

# ibxtools - tools to make MariaDB backups easier

I've written these tools to greatly simplify our backups for our InnoDB-based MariaDB cluster.
They require `innobackupex` and `qpress` executables:

http://www.percona.com/doc/percona-xtrabackup/2.1/innobackupex/innobackupex_script.html
http://www.quicklz.com/

## ibxbackup

This is the backup utility.  It does full and incrementals.  It also pushes backups to a remote
server via ssh/rsync and keeps only the last n days of those backups for you

```
Usage: ibxbackup
  ibxbackup <options>
    -b <full_backup_dir>  Required: Specify path to full backup directory
    -i <incremental_dir>  Required: Specify incremental destination
    -I <identity_file>    Optional: Specify SSH identity file
    -n <#of_days>         Optional: Specify the number of days to keep (default 14)
    -r <remote_dir>       Required: Specify location of remote directory
    -s <server>           Optional: Specify backup server.  If specified, will generate
                          backup aggregate from full/incremental snapshots
    -t <tmpdir>           Optional: Specify temporary directory
    -u <remote_user>      Optional: Specify remote backup server user
    -v                    Increase verbosity of this tool
    -h                    Display this help
```

### Example

```
# If this is the 1st backup of the day (starting at 00:00), take a full.  Otherwise, take an
# incremental based off the full (or latest incremental).  Backups are stored locally
# in the -b and -i directories specified
[root@db ~]# ibxbackup -b /var/lib/mysql/backup/full -i /var/lib/mysql/backup/incremental
...

# Take a backup, package up our full and incrementals for the day, and push them to a remote
# server in a tar archive, keeping 14 days of archives
[root@db ~]# ibxbackup -b /var/lib/mysql/backup/full -i /var/lib/mysql/backup/incremental \
  -I /root/.ssh/id_rsa -u backus -s mybackups.example.com -r /backups -n 14
...
```

## ibxrestore

This is the restore utility.  It sets up an instance of mysqld that is back-ended by your
full or incremental backups:

```
Usage: ibxrestore
  ibxrestore <options>
    -l                    List available snapshot points
    -d                    Base directory of full & incremental snapshots
                          Default is /data/ssd/backups
    -s                    Specify snapshot
    -v                    Increase verbosity of this tool
    -h                    Display this help
```

### Example

```
[root@db ~]# ./ibxrestore -l -d /var/lib/mysql/backup
Full snapshot: 20140902
 - 20140902
Full snapshot: 20140903
 - 20140903.100002
 - 20140903.110001
 - 20140903.120001
 - 20140903.130001
 - 20140903.140001
 - 20140903.150001
...
[root@db ~]# ./ibxrestore -s 20140903.150001      # Give me the state snapshot of the database @ 3:00pm on Sept. 3rd, 2014
Staging incremental state snapshot to temporary mysqld data directory /data/ssd/backups/tmp...
Applying committed transactions from the log...
Applying transactions from 20140903.100002
Applying transactions from 20140903.110001
...
Applying transactions from 20140903.150001
...
==== Starting ibxrestore shell ====
[~ibxshell:20140903.150001~ root@db ~]# mysql
Welcome to the MariaDB monitor.  Commands end with ; or \g.
Your MariaDB connection id is 1
Server version: 5.5.38-MariaDB-wsrep MariaDB Server, wsrep_25.10.r3997
  
Copyright (c) 2000, 2014, Oracle, Monty Program Ab and others.
   
Type 'help;' or '\h' for help. Type '\c' to clear the current input statement.
   
MariaDB [(none)]> show databases;
+------------------------------+
| Database                     |
+------------------------------+
| information_schema           |
| mysql                        |
| performance_schema           |
| db1                          |
| db2                          |
| ...                          |
+------------------------------+
5 rows in set (0.02 sec)
     
MariaDB [(none)]> Bye

[~ibxshell:20140903.150001~ root@db7-dev ~]# exit
Stopping MySQL server instance...
Done
[root@db ~]#
```

Commit message:

Add a little bit more verbiage for restore procedures

README.md, after:

# ibxtools - tools to make MariaDB backups easier

I've written these tools to greatly simplify our backups for our InnoDB-based MariaDB cluster.
They require `innobackupex` and `qpress` executables:

http://www.percona.com/doc/percona-xtrabackup/2.1/innobackupex/innobackupex_script.html
http://www.quicklz.com/

## ibxbackup

This is the backup utility.  It does full and incrementals.  It also pushes backups to a remote
server via ssh/rsync and keeps only the last n days of those backups for you

```
Usage: ibxbackup
  ibxbackup <options>
    -b <full_backup_dir>  Required: Specify path to full backup directory
    -i <incremental_dir>  Required: Specify incremental destination
    -I <identity_file>    Optional: Specify SSH identity file
    -n <#of_days>         Optional: Specify the number of days to keep (default 14)
    -r <remote_dir>       Required: Specify location of remote directory
    -s <server>           Optional: Specify backup server.  If specified, will generate
                          backup aggregate from full/incremental snapshots
    -t <tmpdir>           Optional: Specify temporary directory
    -u <remote_user>      Optional: Specify remote backup server user
    -v                    Increase verbosity of this tool
    -h                    Display this help
```

### Example

```
# If this is the 1st backup of the day (starting at 00:00), take a full.  Otherwise, take an
# incremental based off the full (or latest incremental).  Backups are stored locally
# in the -b and -i directories specified
[root@db ~]# ibxbackup -b /var/lib/mysql/backup/full -i /var/lib/mysql/backup/incremental
...

# Take a backup, package up our full and incrementals for the day, and push them to a remote
# server in a tar archive, keeping 14 days of archives
[root@db ~]# ibxbackup -b /var/lib/mysql/backup/full -i /var/lib/mysql/backup/incremental \
  -I /root/.ssh/id_rsa -u backus -s mybackups.example.com -r /backups -n 14
...
```

## ibxrestore

This is the restore utility.  It sets up an instance of mysqld that is back-ended by your
full or incremental backups:

```
Usage: ibxrestore
  ibxrestore <options>
    -l                    List available snapshot points
    -d                    Base directory of full & incremental snapshots
                          Default is /data/ssd/backups
    -s                    Specify snapshot
    -v                    Increase verbosity of this tool
    -h                    Display this help
```

### Example

```
[root@db ~]# ./ibxrestore -l -d /var/lib/mysql/backup
Full snapshot: 20140902
 - 20140902
Full snapshot: 20140903
 - 20140903.100002
 - 20140903.110001
 - 20140903.120001
 - 20140903.130001
 - 20140903.140001
 - 20140903.150001
...
[root@db ~]# ./ibxrestore -s 20140903.150001      # Give me the state snapshot of the database @ 3:00pm on Sept. 3rd, 2014
Staging incremental state snapshot to temporary mysqld data directory /data/ssd/backups/tmp...
Applying committed transactions from the log...
Applying transactions from 20140903.100002
Applying transactions from 20140903.110001
...
Applying transactions from 20140903.150001
...
==== Continuing restore process...  ====
Source the aliases file to gain appropriate mysql commands:

  $ source /tmp/ibxrestorerc.12345
  $ mysqld      # start a mysqld instance backed by the restored data
  $ mysql       # mysql client to connect to aforementioned mysqld
  $ mysqldump   # mysqldump to connect to aforementioned mysqld
  $ mysqladmin  # mysqladmin to connect to aforementioned mysqld
  $ mysqladmin shutdown  # shuts down mysqld instance


[root@db ~]# source /tmp/ibxrestorerc.12345
[root@db ~]# mysqld
[root@db ~]# mysql
Welcome to the MariaDB monitor.  Commands end with ; or \g.
Your MariaDB connection id is 1
Server version: 5.5.38-MariaDB-wsrep MariaDB Server, wsrep_25.10.r3997
  
Copyright (c) 2000, 2014, Oracle, Monty Program Ab and others.
   
Type 'help;' or '\h' for help. Type '\c' to clear the current input statement.
   
MariaDB [(none)]> show databases;
+------------------------------+
| Database                     |
+------------------------------+
| information_schema           |
| mysql                        |
| performance_schema           |
| db1                          |
| db2                          |
| ...                          |
+------------------------------+
5 rows in set (0.02 sec)
     
MariaDB [(none)]> Bye

Stopping MySQL server instance...
Done
[root@db ~]#
```
